
The following is a list of my first author publications and abstracts. Full texts are linked for all.

### [PhD Dissertation](http://archiv.ub.uni-heidelberg.de/volltextserver/17761/)

### [The Lives of Stars: Insights From the TGAS-RAVE-LAMOST Dataset](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.02332)
>In this paper we investigate how the chemical and kinematic properties of stars vary as a function of age. Using data from a variety of photometric, astrometric and spectroscopic surveys, we calculate the ages, phase space information and orbits for ∼125,000 stars covering a wide range of stellar parameters.
>We find indications that the inner regions of the disk reached high levels of enrichment early, while the outer regions were more substantially enriched in intermediate and recent epochs. We consider these enrichment histories through comparison of the ages of stars, their metallicities, and kinematic properties, such as their angular momentum in the solar neighborhood (which is a proxy for orbital radius). We calculate rates at which the velocity dispersions evolve, investigate the Oort constants for different aged populations (finding a slightly negative ∂VC/∂R and ∂VR/∂R for all ages, being most negative for the oldest stars), as well as examine the behavior of the velocity vertex deviation angle as a function of age (which we find to fall from ∼15 degrees for the 2 Gyr aged population to ∼6 degrees at around 6.5 Gyr of age, after which it remains unchanged). We find evidence for stellar churning, and find that the churned stars have a slightly younger age distribution than the rest of the data.

### [A Global Correction to PPMXL Proper Motions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.08868)
> In this paper we notice that extragalactic sources seem to have non-zero proper motions in the PPMXL proper motion catalog. We collect a large, all-sky sample of extragalactic objects and fit their reported PPMXL proper motions to an ensemble of spherical harmonics in magnitude shells. A magnitude dependent proper motion correction is thus constructed.
> This correction is applied to a set of fundamental radio sources, quasars, and is compared to similar corrections to assess its utility. We publish, along with this paper, code which may be used to correct proper motions in the PPMXL catalog over the full sky which have 2 Micron All Sky Survey photometry.

### [LAMOST 1: A Disrupted Satellite in the Constellation Draco](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.05090)
> Using LAMOST spectroscopic data, we find a strong signal of a comoving group of stars in the constellation of Draco. The group, observed near the apocenter of its orbit, is 2.6 kpc from the Sun with a metallicity of -0.64 dex. The system is observed as a streaming population of unknown provenance with mass of about 2.1E4 solar masses and an absolute V band magnitude of about -3.6. Its high metallicity, diffuse physical structure, and eccentric orbit may indicate that the progenitor satellite was a globular cluster rather than a dwarf galaxy or an open cluster.

### [Red Runaways: Hypervelocity Stars, Hills Ejecta and Other Outliers in the F-M Star Regime](https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.03153)
> In this paper we analyze a sample of metal-rich (>-0.8 dex) main sequence stars in the extended solar neighborhood, investigating kinematic outliers from the background population. The data, which are taken from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, are kinematically profiled as a function of distance from the Galactic plane using full six dimensional phase space information. Each star is examined in the context of these kinematic profiles and likelihoods are assigned to quantify whether a star matches the underlying profile. Since some of these stars are likely to have been ejected from the disc, we trace back their orbits in order to determine potential ejection radii. We find that objects with low probability (i.e. "outliers") are typically more metal poor, faster and, most importantly, have a tendency to originate from the inner Galaxy compared to the underlying population.
>! We also compose a sample of stars with velocities exceeding the local escape velocity. Although we do not discount that our sample could be contaminated by objects with spurious proper motions, a number of stars appear to have been ejected from the disc with exceptionally high velocities. Some of these are consistent with being ejected from the spiral arms and hence are a rich resource for further study. Finally we look at objects whose orbits are consistent with them being ejected at high speeds from the Galactic center. Of these objects we find that one, J135855.65+552538.19, is inconsistent with halo, bulge and disk kinematics and could plausibly have been ejected from the Galactic nucleus via a Hills mechanism.

### [Identifying Blue Horizontal Branch Stars Using the z Filter](https://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4571)
> In this paper we present a new method for selecting blue horizontal branch (BHB) candidates based on color-color photometry. We make use of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey z band as a surface gravity indicator and show its value for selecting BHB stars from quasars, white dwarfs and main sequence A type stars. Using the g, r, i, and z bands, we demonstrate that extraction accuracies on par with more traditional u, g, and r photometric selection methods may be achieved. We also show that the completeness necessary to probe major Galactic structure may be maintained. Our new method allows us to efficiently select BHB stars from photometric sky surveys that do not include a u band filter such as the Panoramic Survey Telescope and Rapid Response System.
